# development environment setup

Here are some notes that might help with setting up your development environment while working on Note Splitter.

We're using Python 3.7.9, but newer versions should work too.

## dependencies
You will need to use a few commands to get started:
* `python -m pip install -e .` to locally install Note Splitter and its dependencies listed in requirements.txt.
* `python -m pip install -r .\requirements_dev.txt` to install the dependencies for development.
* `pre-commit install` to set up [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) git hook scripts

**when the dependencies change**
* Update the appropriate requirements file (and use its corresponding command again if a dependency was added).
* If the new dependency is for Note Splitter itself and not just a development dependency, add it to docs/environment.yaml.

## launch.json
If you use launch.json files to keep track of how to run programs, below is an example for this project that I use with VS Code. Most/all of it should be automatically generated by your IDE, but maybe the "name" and/or "program" fields will require an adjustment.

```json
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Python: main.py (Integrated Terminal)",
            "type": "python",
            "request": "launch",
            "program": "${workspaceFolder}/note_splitter/main.py",
            "console": "integratedTerminal"
        }
    ]
}
```

## directory structure
Here are descriptions of what each of Note Splitter's folders are for:

```
.
├───.github             # Files to configure GitHub.
│   ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE  # Issue templates.
│   └── workflows       # GitHub Actions configuration files for automated testing.
├── docs                # Files for documentation (.md and .rst) and for configuration.
│   └── images          # Images used in the documentation and/or the README.
├── note_splitter       # Source code for Note Splitter.
└── tests               # Automated tests.
    └── assets          # Files used in automated and manual tests.
```

## automated testing
To locally run the automated tests for Note Splitter, there are a few commands you can use:
* `pre-commit run --all-files` to run all the pre-commit git hook scripts without committing
* `pre-commit run hook-id-here --all-files` to run one pre-commit git hook script without committing
* `pytest` to run the tests in your current environment
* `tox` to run the tests in multiple virtual environments

If you're looking for how to locally build the documentation, see [how to maintain this documentation](how-to-doc.rst).

## further reading
You can learn more about how this program was made from our [references](references.md).
